Add online unsafe recovery related documents (#6807)
pingcap/docs: online-unsafe-recovery.md

---
title: Online Unsafe Recovery

> summary: Learn how to use online unsafe recovery.

Author: ```suggestion
summary: Learn how to use Online Unsafe Recovery.
```

---

# Online Unsafe Recovery

> **Warning:**
>
> - This feature is a lossy recovery, so TiKV cannot guarantee data integrity and data indexes integrity after using the feature.
> - Online unsafe recovery is an experimental feature, and it is **not** recommended to use it in the production environment. The interface, strategy, and internal implementation of the feature might be changed when it is finally released. Also, although the feature is tested in some scenarios, it is not thoroughly validated, so the feature might cause system unavailability.
> - It is recommended to perform the feature-related operations with the support of the TiDB team. If some incorrect operations are performed, it might be hard to recover the cluster.

When permanently damaged replicas cause part of data to be unreadable and unwritable, you can use the online unsafe recovery feature to perform a lossy recovery operation.

## Feature description

> In TiDB, data might be stored in many stores at the same time according to multiple replica rules defined by users. This guarantees that data can still be readable and writable even if a single or a few stores are temporarily offline or damaged. However, when most or all replicas of a Region go offline in a short time, the Region becomes temporarily unavailable for ensuring data integrity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In TiDB, data might be replicated in many stores at the same time according to the placements rules defined by users. This guarantees that data is still readable and writable even if a single or a few stores are temporarily offline or damaged. However, when most or all replicas of a Region are offline at the same time, the Region becomes temporarily unavailable, by design, to ensure data integrity.
```

> Suppose that multiple replicas of data encounter problems like permanent damage (such as disk damage), and this issue causes stores to fail to go online. In this case, this data is temporarily unavailable. Provided that you can accept data rewind or data loss, if you want the cluster back in use under this circumstance, TiDB can theoretically re-form the majority of replicas by manually overwriting the meta information of data shards. This allows application layer services to read and write (might be stale or empty) this data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suppose that multiple replicas of data encounter problems like permanent damage (such as disk damage), and this issue causes stores to fail to go online. In this case, this data is temporarily unavailable. Provided that you can accept data rewind or data loss, if you want the cluster back in use under this circumstance, TiDB can theoretically re-form the majority of replicas by manually removing the failed ones from the group. This allows application layer services to be able to read and write this data (might be stale or empty) again.
```

Author: "by manually overwriting the meta information of data shards." 这部分是否需要在中文中修改为对应内容呢？

Reviewer: 应该，中文描述可能不够清楚，改了更好

> In this case, if some stores with loss-tolerating data are permanently damaged, you can easily perform a lossy recovery operation by using online unsafe recovery. Using this feature, PD, under its global perspective, collects the meta information of data shards in all stores and generates a more real-time and more complete recovery plan. Then, PD distributes the plan to each surviving store to make the stores perform data recovery tasks. Also, after the data recovery plan is distributed, PD periodically checks the recovery progress to ensure that the current state of the cluster matches its expected state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, if some stores with loss-tolerating data are permanently damaged, you can easily perform a lossy recovery operation by using online unsafe recovery. Using this feature, PD, under its global perspective, collects the meta information of data shards from all stores and generates a real-time and complete recovery plan. Then, PD distributes the plan to all surviving stores to make them perform data recovery tasks. Also, once the data recovery plan is distributed, PD monitors the recovery progress and re-send the plan when necessary.
```

Author: @v01dstar 同上，"PD monitors the recovery progress and re-send the plan when necessary" 这部分是否需要在中文中修改为对应内容呢？

Reviewer 2: +1

Reviewer: 应该，现在再读中文描述，感觉有点过于简略，加上“在需要时，重新分发恢复计划”这个描述可能更好

## User scenarios

> Online unsafe recovery feature is suitable for the following scenarios:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Online Unsafe Recovery feature is suitable for the following scenarios:
```

* The data for application services is unreadable and unwritable, because permanently damaged stores cause the stores to fail to restart.
* You can accept data loss and want the affected data to be readable and writable.
* You want to perform a one-stop online data recovery operation.

## Usage

### Prerequisites

> Before using online unsafe recovery, make sure the following things:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before using Online Unsafe Recovery, make sure that the following requirements are met:
```

> * Part of data is indeed unavailable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The offline stores indeed cause some pieces of data to be unavailable.
```

Author: @v01dstar 同上，"The offline stores indeed cause some pieces of data to be unavailable." 这部分是否需要在中文中修改为对应内容呢？

Reviewer: 应该，防止“part”被认为是重点

> * The offlined stores cannot be automatically recovered or restarted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The offline stores cannot be automatically recovered or restarted.
```

> ### Step 1. disable all types of scheduling

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Step 1. Disable all types of scheduling
```

> You need to disable all types of internal scheduling, such as load balancing. After disabling them, it is recommended to wait for about 10 minutes so that the triggered scheduling can have sufficient time to complete the scheduled tasks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You need to temporarily disable all types of internal scheduling, such as load balancing. After disabling them, it is recommended to wait for about 10 minutes so that the triggered scheduling can have sufficient time to complete the scheduled tasks.
```

> **Note:**
>

> > When disabling the scheduling, the system cannot resolve data hotspot issues. Therefore, you need to enable the scheduling as soon as possible after the recovery is completed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> After the scheduling is disabled, the system cannot resolve data hotspot issues. Therefore, you need to enable the scheduling as soon as possible after the recovery is completed.
```

> 1. Use pd-ctl to view the current configuration by running the [`config show`](/pd-control.md#config-show--set-option-value--placement-rules) command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Use PD Control to get the current configuration by running the [`config show`](/pd-control.md#config-show--set-option-value--placement-rules) command.
```

> 2. Use pd-ctl to disable all types of scheduling, for example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Use PD Control to disable all types of scheduling. For example:
```

    * [`config set region-schedule-limit 0`](/pd-control.md#config-show--set-option-value--placement-rules)
    * [`config set replica-schedule-limit 0`](/pd-control.md#config-show--set-option-value--placement-rules)
    * [`config set merge-schedule-limit 0`](/pd-control.md#config-show--set-option-value--placement-rules)

> ### Step 2. remove the stores that cannot be automatically recovered

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Step 2. Remove the stores that cannot be automatically recovered
```

> Use pd-ctl to remove the stores that cannot be automatically recovered by running the [`unsafe remove-failed-stores <store_id>[,<store_id>,...]`](/pd-control.md#unsafe-remove-failed-stores-store-ids--show--history) command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use PD Control to remove the stores that cannot be automatically recovered by running the [`unsafe remove-failed-stores <store_id>[,<store_id>,...]`](/pd-control.md#unsafe-remove-failed-stores-store-ids--show--history) command.
```

> **Note:**
>

> > The successful return of this command only indicates that the request is accepted, not that the recovery is completed successfully. The stores are actually recovered in the background.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> The returned result of this command only indicates that the request is accepted, not that the recovery is completed successfully. The stores are actually recovered in the background.
```

> ### Step 3. check the progress

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Step 3. Check the progress
```

> When the above store removal command runs successfully, you need to use pd-ctl to check the removal progress by running the [`unsafe remove-failed-stores show`](/pd-control.md#config-show--set-option-value--placement-rules) command. When the command result shows "Last recovery has finished", the system recovery is completed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the above store removal command runs successfully, you can use PD Control to check the removal progress by running the [`unsafe remove-failed-stores show`](/pd-control.md#config-show--set-option-value--placement-rules) command. When the command result shows "Last recovery has finished", the system recovery is completed.
```

> ### Step 4. test read and write tasks

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Step 4. Test read and write tasks
```

> After the progress command shows that the recovery task is completed, you can try to run some simple SQL queries like the following example or perform write tasks to ensure that the data is readable and writable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the progress command shows that the recovery task is completed, you can try to execute some simple SQL queries like the following example or perform write tasks to ensure that the data is readable and writable.
```

```sql
select count(*) from table_that_suffered_from_group_majority_failure;
```

> **Note:**
>

> > The circumstance that data can be read and written does not indicate there is no data loss.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> The situation that data can be read and written does not indicate there is no data loss.
```

> ### Step 5. restart the scheduling

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Step 5. Restart the scheduling
```

> To restart the scheduling, you need to adjust the value of `config set region-schedule-limit 0`, `config set replica-schedule-limit 0`, `config set merge-schedule-limit 0` modified in step 1 to the initial values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To restart the scheduling, you need to adjust the `0` value of `config set region-schedule-limit 0`, `config set replica-schedule-limit 0`, and `config set merge-schedule-limit 0` modified in step 1 to the initial values.
```

> After that, the whole process is over.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, the whole process is finished.
```
